=head1 NAME

CVS - Access to the Embperl CVS development tree

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Embperl development tree lives on the same machine as
perl.apache.org.  This tree contains the latest Embperl bug fixes and
developments that have not made it to CPAN yet.  Welcome to the
bleeding edge. 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Just as cvs access to the Apache development tree, the Embperl code
pulled from cvs is not guaranteed to do anything, especially not
compile or work.  But, that's exactly why we are using cvs, so
everyone has access the latest version and can help see to it that
Embperl does compile and work on all platforms, with the various
versions and configurations of Perl and Apache.  Patches are always
welcome, simply testing the latest snapshots is just as, if not more
helpful. 


Here are the several ways to access the cvs tree.

=over 4

=item cvsup

Cvsup has come out of the FreeBSD group. It's a client/server
beast that offers an efficient way to sync collections of files over
the net, and it is very CVS aware, allowing syncronisation of repositories
or checked out files using the cvs deltas to bring the client side
files up to date with minimal data transfer.

For a FreeBSD cvsup client see:

http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/ports.cgi?query=cvsup&stype=all

Others (SunOS, alpha.osf, linux, Solaris2.4, HPAA 10.2, irix)
ftp://ftp.postgresql.org/pub/CVSup/

Here's a config file for the client (cvsup) to sync Embperl sources.

 *default tag=.
 # comment out the above if you want the raw cvs files

 *default host=apache.org
 *default prefix=/path/on/this/machine/to/install/
 # a subdir for modperl will appear here ^^^

 *default base=/path/on/this/machine/where/cvsup/will/keep/status/info
 # you'll never need to look in the 'base' dir.

 *default release=cvs delete use-rel-suffix compress

 embperl 
 #modperl
 #apache-src
 #apache-docs
 #uncomment these three for the latest apache src, docs and/or mod_perl
 #  if you want them

=item anoncvs

See http://dev.apache.org/anoncvs.txt.  The difference
is that you use "embperl" instead of "apache-x.x".

=item from-cvs

A snapshot is rolled of the Embperl tree every 6 hours and placed
here:

http://dev.apache.org/from-cvs/embperl/

A snapshot of the Apache development tree is also rolled every 6 hours
and placed here:

http://dev.apache.org/from-cvs/

and mod_perl can be found here

http://dev.apache.org/from-cvs/modperl/

=back

=head1 MAILING LIST

There is a cvs mailing list for Embperl (This is B<not> a list for asking
questions about Embperl!!!). This list receives all changes which are
commited to the cvs. If you want to know whats going on which Embperl,
you can subcribe by sending a mail to B<embperl-cvs-request@apache.org>
with B<subcribe> in the body.


=head1 SEE ALSO

cvs(1)
mod_perl_cvs.pod

