=pod

=head1 Main features of HTML::Embperl 1.2

=over 4

=item * 

Lets you embed Perl code into HTML documents. Perl code is
evaluated at the server side and the result is sent to the browser.


=item *

Offers various meta-commands for conditional and loop 
processing of the HTML documents.


=item * 

Automatically generates dynamic HTML tables/lists from Perl arrays or
function calls (e.g. DBI fetch)


=item *

Form data send to your document is placed in a hash


=item * 

Automatically inserts data from the form hash into HTML input,
textarea and select tags


=item *

Understands HTML and URL escaping and unescaping

=item *

Handles per-user and per-module persistent session data for you.
All you need to do is store and retrieve them to and from
a special hash.

=item *

Allows you to build your web-site out of components. Frequently used elements
can be defined once and included in every page.

=item *

Gives you the possibility to build libraries with a set of frequently used 
Elements or components, and make them available to the whole web-site in the
same way as Perl modules are - well, modularized.

=item *

Supports debugging of pages by generating a very detailed
log file and making it accessible via the browser with a single click.

=item *

Generates verbose error pages in which every error can link 
to the log file. This is ideal for debugging.

=item *

Offers a lot of options for maximum configurability according to your personal tastes and needs.

=item *

Fully integrated into Apache and mod_perl to acheive the best
performance. Can also run as a CGI-script, offline or called from
another Perl program.

=item *

The Perl module DBIx::Recordset offers high level, easy to handle
database access for Embperl.

=item *

If you are concerned about security you can configure Embperl to use
Safe.pm. This way, your documents can run in a safe namespace which
can allow or disallow certain Perl opcodes.


=back



